---
title:  "Project proposal"
date:   "2019-02-14T13:04:00.000Z"
---


_These are some extracts from the original project proposal..._

In 2009 Thales, Telmex, and Mexico City administrators started building the
[_Ciudad Segura_ CCTV surveillance system](./Mexico Case.pdf). In 2014 they
_doubled their capacity_, and in 2018 Thales [marketing
materials](https://www.thalesgroup.com/en/mexico-city) purport the project to
be a success story.

Seeing as in Mexico City race is a construct that is linked to social class, I
think that it could be worth thinking about the types of social sorting
implicit in a system like _Ciudad Segura_. Perhaps it could also make sense to
speculate about the dystopian possibilities opened up by recent advances in AI
technologies for such a system.

In this project, I want to acquire _Ciudad Segura_ CCTV footage via FOIA
requests and analyse it with face-recognition technologies. The output would
be a workshop in which the results are shared, and discussed with
participants, that include local Mexico City programmers and activists.

In pursuit of the impossible ideal of a total or complete vision, systems like
_Ciudad segura_ will produce audiovisual materials related to quotidian and
everyday situations that could be argued have no intersect at all with any law
enforcement activity. Are these trivial and ordinary videos available via FOIA
requests? More generally, what types of CCTV footage are available via FOIA
requests in Mexico City?

For this project, some of the questions I'm interested in include the
following. What types of face-recognition technologies are used by law
enforcement to analyze CCTV footage in Mexico City? What are the intersects
between CCTV video, and personal data?  Seeing as the _Ciudad segura_ system
predates it, how have their CCTV collection workflows been changed to account
for the [LGPDPPSO](http://english.arochilindner.com/news/general_law_on_the_protection_of_personal_data_in_possession_of_responsible_parties)?  Can we speculate about future uses of face-recognition
technologies by law enforcement in Mexico City?
